feat(changelog): public-gateways-changed-the-public-gateway-is 2023-07-18 (#1940)
scaleway/docs-content: changelog/july2023/2023-07-18-public-gateways-changed-the-public-gateway-is.mdx

---

> title: The Public Gateway is changing

Reviewer: ```suggestion
title: Public Gateway is changing
```

status: changed
author:
    fullname: 'Join the #public-gateway channel on Slack.'
    url: 'https://slack.scaleway.com'
date: 2023-07-18
category: network
product: public-gateways
---

> With the release of VPC in GA, the Public Gateway is no longer supporting the DHCP server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the release of VPC in GA, Public Gateway no longer supports the DHCP server.
```

> The Public Gateway focuses now on its primary function such as

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Public Gateway now focuses on its primary functions such as:
```

> - Internet access: Allowing external traffic to access the internal resources of a Private Network

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Internet access: allowing external traffic to access the internal resources of a Private Network
```

> - NAT-Gateway: Distributing request to the right IP address

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- NAT-Gateway: distributing requests to the right IP addresses
```

> - SSH Bastion: Allowing and monitoring SSH connection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- SSH Bastion: allowing and monitoring SSH connections
```

> - Local DNS server: customizing resources name on the Private Network

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Local DNS server: customizing resource names on the Private Network
```

> 

Reviewer 2: See our [dedicated documentation](https://www.scaleway.com/en/docs/network/vpc/reference-content/vpc-migration/) for full details.
